G 6 Registration:
(a) An applicant who has been admitted to a course or courses as a candidate for any degree or diploma or any other University qualification shall be deemed to have entered upon such course or courses on the date of his first registration. Every candidate shall registeron admission to the University and thereafter at the beginning of each academic year of hiscurriculum. Registration shall include the payment of fees due.
(b) (i) A person who is registered as a candidate for a degree, diploma or certificate of the University listed in Statute III shall not register as a candidate for any other degree, diploma or certificate of the University or for any other post-secondary qualificationat any educational institution except with the approval of the Senate given in advance.A candidate in breach of this regulation may be required to discontinue his studies inthe University. (ii) A person who is registered for any post-secondary qualification at any educational institution shall not be registered as a candidate for a degree, diploma or certificate of the University listed in Statute III except with the approval of the Senate given inadvance.
G 7 Academic year:
The academic year shall begin in September each year.
G 8 Attendance and absence:
(a) Attendance: A student shall follow his courses of instruction and complete the requirementsof his curriculum to the satisfaction of the Heads of the Departments concerned. (b) Absence: (i) Astudent who cannot attend for between three and seven days inclusive because of hisillness shall, if he is registered in a Faculty, inform the Dean of the Faculty concerned inwriting at the earliest opportunity. A student who is registered other than in a Facultyshall in similar manner inform the Registrar. When longer absence is necessary or whenabsence fromassessmentsis in question, a student shall submit in writing an applicationfor leave of absence to the Dean, or the Registrar, as the case may be, together with a certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. In such cases the Universityshall consult the Director of the University Health Service and may seek advice from a medical board of three medical practitioners, one of whom shall be the Director of the University Health Service, and one of whom may be nominated by the student. (ii) A student who, during his studies, desires leave of absence for more than two full consecutive days for non-medical reasons shall, if he is registered in a Faculty, applyto the Dean of the Faculty concerned in writing at the earliest opportunity, stating the reasons for which the leave of absence is sought. A student who is registered other than in a Faculty shall in similar manner apply to the Registrar. Permission for such leave shall be granted only in exceptional circumstances and shall not be granted byreason only that the student has already made arrangements to be absent. (iii) A student who is suspended shall not be permitted to attend during the period of suspension.(iv) A student who is given permission to undertake studies in another higher educationinstitution for a period of more than twelve months shall normally be regarded as having withdrawn from the studies in the University, but shall be eligible for re-admission on completion of their studies in the other institution. In considering suchan application, the University shall also decide on the request of credit transfer, if any,from the student. (c) Re-entry:(i) A student registered in a Faculty who has been absent, whether leave has been grantedunder this regulation or not, for a period of such length as to make it impossible, inthe opinion of the Dean of the Faculty concerned, for him to complete his year’s work,shall not resume attendance in the same academic year, except with the permission of the Board of his Faculty. A student registered other than in a Faculty who has beenabsent shall in a similar manner not resume attendance except with the permission ofthe Registrar. (ii) A student who has been granted leave of absence on the basis of a certificate of his illness signed by a registered medical practitioner shall, before resuming his studies, present a further certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner to the effect that his state of health will permit him to resume and complete his studies.
8 The Senate has given permission for the following students to use Chinese:•students in the School of Chinese; •students in the Faculty of Education(i) following courses, modules and programmes in Chinese subjects, (ii) in the PGDE (formerly entitled PCEd) programme practicing teaching in schools using Chinese as medium of instruction, (iii) in Speech-Language Pathology (formerly entitled Speech and Hearing Sciences); •students in the Department of Law taking the following courses:(i) ‘Use of Chinese in Law I’(ii) ‘Use of Chinese in Law II’(iii) ‘Cross-border legal relation between the Mainland and Hong Kong’(iv) ‘Commercial Law in Mainland China’; •students in the School of Chinese Medicine; •students in the Master of Buddhist Studies programme, in assessment of specified courses; and •students in programmes offered in Mainland China, in specified parts of the assessments.
(iii) A student who is not permitted to resume attendance in the same academic year underthe provisions of clause (c)(i) of this regulation shall be regarded as having withdrawnfrom his studies with effect from the first day of his absence but shall be re-admitted at the commencement of the next academic year to the same curriculum and year of his previous registration. He may be required, before being re-admitted, to submit a certificate signed by a registered practitioner to the effect that his state of health willpermit him to resume and to complete his studies. (iv) A student who is unable for reasons of health to attend for a period of more than twelve continuous months shall be regarded as having withdrawn from his studies but may apply again for admission to the same or to another curriculum provided thathe submits a certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner to the effect that hisstate of health will permit him to resume and to complete his studies. (v) In cases where a student submits a certificate signed by a registered medical practitionerin accordance with the provisions of this regulation, the University shall consult theDirector of the University Health Service and may seek advice from a medical board ofthree medical practitioners, one of whom shall be the Director of the University HealthService and one of whom may be nominated by the student.
G 9 Assessments:
(a) There shall be assessments as specified in the regulations for each degree, diploma or certificate. (b) A student shall not be admitted to an assessment except under the regulations for the particular degree, diploma or certificate. (c) A student suspended under Statute XXXI shall not be allowed to take, present himself for, and participate in any assessments during the period of suspension, unless otherwise permitted by the Senate. (d) A student who is unable, because of his illness, to be present for any paper or papers in an examination shall be permitted to present himself at a supplementary examination in the paper or papers where such an examination is prescribed in the regulations only if his application for permission is approved by the relevant Board of Examiners. (e) Examiners may examine by means of written, practical, or oral test, or by continuous assessment, or by any combination of these. (f) Subject to Statute III (Degrees), a student who has been exempted from any part or the whole of a course or assessment shall be deemed to have completed that part or the whole of the course or to have satisfied the examiners in that part or the whole of the assessment. (g) Examination scripts and theses and dissertations for higher degrees shall be written in English, unless the candidate is given permission by the Senate to use another language 8. (h) There shall be no appeal against the results of examinations and all other forms of assessment.
G 10 Aegrotat degree:
(a) Acandidatewhowouldotherwisehavecompletedtherequirementsofthecurriculumforanyof the following degrees, but for his inability through his illness or injury to participate in theassessment process during the final semester of his studies for one of these degrees may beconsideredfortheawardofanaegrotatdegree: BA,BBA,BBA(Acc&Fin),BBA(IBGM),BBA(IS),BBA(Law), BCogSc, BEcon, BEcon&Fin, BEd, BFin, BHousMan, LLB, BSc, BSc(ActuarSc),BSc(QFin), BSc(Sp&HearSc), BSc(SSLM), BSocSc, BSocSc(Govt&Laws) or BSW. (b) Application for the award of an aegrotat degree shall be made within thirty days from the completion of the assessment process. The application shall be accompanied by a certificatesigned by a registered medical practitioner. (c) An aegrotat degree shall be conferred only with the agreement of the candidate, and suchagreement shall render him ineligible to present himself for any subsequent assessment forthe degree concerned. (d) An aegrotat degree shall not be classified.
G 11 Unsatisfactory performance or progress:
A student whose performance at examinations or in continuous assessment as may be held from timeto time is unsatisfactory, or in the case of a higher degree student whose progress is unsatisfactory, maybe required by the Senate (a) to discontinue his studies, or (b) to repeat any part of his course before being admitted to further assessments or before being allowed to present his thesis or dissertation, or
(c) to re-present himself for assessment without repeating any part of his course.
G 12 Discontinuation of studies:
(a) The Board of a Faculty or an appropriate committee may recommend to the Senate that under the provisions of G 11 and, where applicable, in accordance with any degree, diploma or certificate regulation, a student be required to discontinue his studies in a curriculum administered by the Board or the committee. (b) In all cases where a student is recommended for discontinuation in accordance with G 12(a) orliable for discontinuation under theprovisions of any degree, diploma orcertificate regulation,there shall be a review of the circumstances of the case by the Committee on Discontinuation.The student shall be so informed in writing and be provided with a statement of the reasonsthereof. He shall be invited to submit in writing to the Registrar any non-academic reason which he considers relevant to the issue of his discontinuation. He shall also be invited to appear before the Senate Committee on Discontinuation and may, if the Committee so desires,be required to appear. (c) The decision of the Committee on Discontinuation shall be communicated as soon as maybe to the student and the Board of the Faculty concerned.
G 13 Change of name:
Astudentshallretainthenameunderwhichhehasbeenfirstregistered. ChangeofnameontheUniversityregister shall be effected only on receipt by the Registrar of a recognized form of legal deposition.
G 14 Transcripts and certificates of attendance:
A transcript of academic record or certificate of attendance giving information on courses of studymay be issued to a student or former student on application and upon payment of the prescribed fees.
G 15 Visiting students:
(a) An applicant, whether or not he satisfies the minimum University entrance requirements,may be admitted as a visiting student normally for a period of not more than one academicyear for the purpose of(i) attending courses of study in a degree, diploma or other University curriculum; or (ii) undertaking postgraduate research studies or such other studies as may be prescribedby the Head of the Department concerned, but shall not be registered as a candidate fora degree, diploma, or other qualification of the University. An applicant for admissionas a visiting student shall have educational standards in the English language and in the subjects of his choice which are considered adequate by the Head of the Departmentconcerned. (b) Subject to the approval of the Board of the Faculty or the committee concerned, a visitingstudent may participate in prescribed coursework and assessments as may be required for thecourse in question, and may, on request, be given a statement setting out the classes attendedand the results of any assessments taken. An application for permission to participate in coursework and/or assessments shall not normally be approved unless it is received at the time an application for admission is made.(c) A visiting student shall not change his status to that of a candidate for a degree, diploma orother University qualification; and shall not be granted any exemption from any part of thecurriculum for any degree, diploma or other University qualification on the basis of work done during any period of his attendance as a visiting student. (d) Applications for admission as visiting students shall be made to the Registrar, and successfulapplicants shall be permitted to register only on(i) the first day of each semester, in the case of students who intend to follow courses of study; or (ii) the first day of any calendar month during a year, in the case of students who intendto undertake postgraduate research studies or such other studies as may be prescribedby the Head of the Department concerned.
G 16 Compliance with regulations and exemption from provisions thereof:
(a) Subject to the Ordinance and the statutes and without prejudice to section (b) below, the regulations made by the Senate and/or the Council shall apply uniformly from the date upon which they come into operation and shall continue so to apply until the date of their amendment or repeal: always provided that the Senate and/or the Council may provide inany particular case that a regulation shall remain in force for the purpose of completion of acandidature which was commenced prior to the amendment or repeal of the regulation. (b) Subject to the Ordinance and the statutes, and notwithstanding section (a) above, the Senatemay exempt any student from the provisions of any regulation made by the Senate, providedthat, in the case of an exemption from the provisions of any of the regulations governing degrees or diplomas or certificates, there is a recommendation to the effect from the Board of the Faculty or from the Senate Committee concerned.
G 17 University fees:
I. Conditions
(a) University fees shall be payable in accordance with Section II of this regulation, and fees forthe current academic year shall be as prescribed by the Council 9. They may be varied fromtime to time at the University’s absolute discretion provided that notice of not later than June 30preceding the academic year in which the fee is to be varied shall be given, by announcementposted on all official University noticeboards, whenever a variation is to be made.
For current fees, see Schedule of Fees.
(b) University fees shall be paid in advance, unless otherwise specified, and once paid shall notbe refunded except as prescribed in Section II. (c) Unless he has received, in advance of the date on which payment of any fees is due, permissionfrom the Registrar or another authorized officer to postpone payment to a later date, a studentwho has not paid within 30 days after the due date shall have his name removed from the register of students. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section II(k) of this regulation and other regulations where applicable, the University may in its absolute discretion withholdthe provision of any services to the de-registered student including the issue of assessmentresults, transcript and certificate of attendance. To re-instate his student status, the student shall be required to pay a surcharge of 10% of the outstanding fees, or $500, whichever is thelesser, in addition to settling the outstanding fees. The University may additionally request the student to compensate the University for any loss of interest for any late payment or non-payment of fees, including the surcharge, irrespective of whether the student’s name has been removed from the register. This clause shall be applicable to all University fees,fines, charges, and other payments for which a student is liable, whether they are stipulatedin this regulation or not. (d) There shall be no remission of fees in whole or in part except when remission is a specifiedpart of a University scholarship, prize, bursary, or similar award.
II. Fees
(a) A candidate registered for a Bachelor’s, Master’s or Doctor’s 10 degree, other than higherdoctorates, or a diploma or certificate, shall pay caution money and the fees for application,composition and graduation; and, where appropriate, the fees for qualifying examination, repeating, re-assessment, continuation, examination and compulsory residence. All such full-time candidates shall also pay an annual student activity fee which is used to supportactivities of student societies and campus wide student events. An applicant for admission to candidature of a higher doctorate shall pay an application fee; and upon admission to candidature, shall pay an examination fee. A candidate registered for the degree of Doctor of Medicine or the degree of Master of Surgery shall pay caution money and the fees forapplication, registration, examination and graduation. A visiting student shall pay the fees for application and composition.(b) The composition fee, which includes elements for registration, tuition or supervision,laboratory, workshop, library, health service, and other facilities offered, shall be payable inthe following manner unless otherwise stated in the schedule of fees:(i) by a candidate registered for a Bachelor’s degree or a Master’s degree by courseworkor diploma or certificate: annually by two instalments by dates to be prescribed by theRegistrar, the first during August to October and the second in January; (ii) by a candidate registered for the degree of MPhil or PhD: annually by two instalmentsduring the candidate’s period of study as prescribed in the regulations governing thedegree 11; (iii) by a candidate registered for the Diploma or Certificate in Chinese Language: annuallyby three instalments in September, December and March; (iv) by a visiting student: in one single payment at the time of admission.
10 Fees arrangements for the three-year programme of the PhD shall normally be applicable to the degree of SJD. 11 A candidate for the degree of MPhil or the degree of PhD will be liable for the continuation fee for each three-month period following the expiry of his period of study as prescribed in the regulations governing the degree. This means that a candidate registered for the degree of MPhil becomes liable for the continuation fee at the end of the twenty-fourth month of his full-time candidature or at the end of the thirty-sixth month of his part-time candidature; and a candidate registered for the three-year programme of the degree of PhD becomes liable for the continuation fee at the end of the thirty-sixth month of his full-time candidature or at the end of the fifty-fourth month of his part-time candidature; and a candidate registered for the four-year programme of the degree of PhD becomes liable for the continuation fee at the end of the forty-eighth month of his full-time candidature or at the end of the seventy-second month of his part-time candidature.
(c) Caution money shall be paid by a student on first registration and shall be retained by theUniversity as a deposit from which it may make deductions in respect of fees, fines, breakages,damage, loss and other charges incurred by the student; if at any time, as a result of deductionsmade, thebalance ofthe deposit be inadequate to meet futurecharges outstanding, the studentshall restore the balance therein to its original level. On withdrawal from the University,the balance of a student’s caution money shall be set off against the graduation fee or, if thestudent is not graduating, be returned to the student. (d) The continuation fee, which includes elements for registration, tuition or supervision,laboratory, workshop, library, health service and other facilities offered, shall be paid by a candidate who is registered for an MPhil or PhD degree and who requires to continue beyondthe period of study prescribed for the degree. (e) The repeating fee, which includes elements for registration, tuition or supervision, laboratory,workshop, library, health service and other facilities offered, shall be paid by a candidate registered for a Bachelor’s degree or Master’s degree by coursework, or a diploma or certificate and who is permitted or required to repeat part of the courses of any one yearof the curriculum. The fee shall be charged in respect of each course to be repeated, and dissertations and fieldwork for Master’s degrees by coursework shall be counted as one course each. A re-assessment fee shall not be payable in addition. (f) A student who is permitted or required to repeat the whole of one year of the curriculum fora degree, diploma or certificate shall pay the composition fee prescribed. (g) The re-assessment fee, which includes elements for registration, library, health service and other facilities offered, shall be paid by a candidate registered for a Bachelor’s degree or Master’s degree by coursework, or a diploma or certificate and who is permitted or requiredto present himself for re-assessment without repeating any courses. (h) Candidates may be required to pay a deposit on acceptance of an offer of admission, the amount of which shall be determined by the Registrar. Such deposit shall be credited towards the first year’s composition fee and shall not be refunded, except to a candidate admitted provisionally who fails to satisfy the admissions requirements. (i) The registration fee shall be paid by a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Medicine or Master of Surgery upon his first registration. (j) The graduation fee shall be paid by a candidate for a degree, diploma or certificate on completion of the curriculum and before the degree, diploma or certificate is awarded. (k) A charge shall be made for a transcript of results in the University of Hong Kong AdvancedLevel Examination and for a transcript of a student’s record or a certificate of attendance. (l) Candidates may be required to pay such other fees, fines and charges as prescribed by the Council from time to time. Such fees, fines and charges shall be payable by the dates specified.
G 18 Academic dress:
[Detailed specifications for official, undergraduate, and graduate academic dress omitted in this concise RAG edition.]

G 19 Registered graduates:
(a) All graduates of the University shall be entitled to have their names enrolled in a Register of Graduates and to enjoy all the privileges of registration. (b) Graduates of the University whose first degree was conferred before January 1969 shall be enrolled as Registered Graduates on payment of the fee for enrolment as a Registered Graduate; graduates of the University whose first degree was conferred after January 1969 shall be enrolled as Registered Graduates on payment of the graduation fee. Subject to (g) below, graduates of the University who have paid these fees as prescribed shall remain on the roll, until death or resignation, without payment of any further fee. (c) Registered Graduates shall be members of Convocation. (d) Registered Graduates shall be eligible to attend Congregations for the conferring of degrees and functions and conferences that may, from time to time, be arranged. (e) Registered Graduates, if resident in Hong Kong, may read in the Library and borrow books in accordance with Library rules, without payment of a Library subscription. (f) The rights and privileges of a Registered Graduate shall terminate if his University degree qualifying him for registration is forfeited, cancelled or withdrawn, with effect from the date of such forfeiture, cancellation or withdrawal. (g) The Chancellor shall, with the concurrence of the Court, have the power to remove the name of any person from the Register of Graduates.
G 20 Hall charges:
(a) The following charges shall be made:(i) forlodginginaUniversity-maintainedresidentialhall:anannualchargeforaresidentialyear of a length prescribed each year by the University; (ii) for board in University Hall: the daily charge is determined by the hall; and (iii) for non-residential membership of a residential hall, whether University-maintainedor approved, or for membership of a non-residential hall: an annual charge. (b) These charges shall be determined annually and may be varied at the University’s absolutediscretion provided that notice is given, by announcement posted on all official University and appropriate hall notice boards, as follows:(i) for the non-residential membership charge: twelve calendar months; and (ii) for lodging and board charges: by June 30in each case before the beginning of the academic year when a revised charge is to be made12.
For schedule of current charges, see Schedule of Fees.
